{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11860\viewh11260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Literature Review: What people have done for predicting tournaments before (both bball and other sports are fine), March madness in general (how many people watch, how much revenue is it worth). Predicting human performance in sports (it's hard), history of Kaggle.\
\
Due Date: July 15\
\
We should be explicit about the Kaggle comp. vs. just filling out a bracket. For kaggle, there are no broken brackets.\
\
\
-When comparing models: modeling point spread vs explicit prediction models: logistic vs cart vs linear models.\
CART is maybe not effective here because there isn't any obvious heterogeneity in the space. Linear models seem to work well.\
\
\
-Subsection in Data: team level vs player level data\
\
\
-Data and Model should be separated (right now they're both in section 3)\
\
\
-subSection on:  calibrating predictions via predictive intervals (overlap zero?). Goes under our modeling approach  \
\
- In this subsection, discuss tuning the tails for the predictions. \
\
\
-Section on: comparing various models\
\
-Just sagarin (Scotland or Andy), nate silver, consensus (Xinran)+espn (include into sensitivity study with Lucas). \
\
\
-Section on Luck: how sensitive is the leader board. It's natural to think 2nd place almost won, but how close was 20th place to winning. (Lucas: sensitivity study)\
\
\
\
Section: Recommendations\'85 things that work and don't work. How do you train the models\'85 for each season, do you train the model to predict that years tournament. Or, do you use all 5 years worth of data to predict a single year? The first choice is obviously better. "The data is probably more important than the models- cite from the kaggle winners"\
\
-subsection in recommendations: How should a typical user use this to figure out their bracket?\
 - one strategy is take the most probable. is there another? (Marcos)\
 \
\
-In Discussion: other data such as injury reports (Nate uses this)\
\
Discussion: Is the score at 2 minutes to go better than the final score? In the last minutes of the game, wonky stuff happens}